## Overview

**Hiperspace** is uses [protobuf](https://protobuf.dev/) wire-format to serialize **elements** in the domain **SubSpace**
for persistence is a *key/value* *(primarily [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org/))* with *minimal* transformation, and no padding.

The schema can evolve without the need to alter an historically, using two rules:
* #id numeric aliases for {entities, segments, aspects, keys, values, indexes} are never reused
* The datatype of {keys, values} are never changed (*other than by renaming items*)


### MetaModel

The `MetaModel` contains a list of all the *Element* types stored within a Hiperspace and the data types of each *key*
and *value*.  The `MetaModel` is eternal - additional *Element* are added as tyhe schema changes, but never removed, to ensure that
older build can still read the data that they understand.

When a **Hiperspace** is opened, the domain `MetaModel` is compared with the `MetaModel` stored in the **Hiperspace** to ensure the
above rules have not been compromised.  All read and write after open uses the wire-format directly without transformation from store
through to client application (including browser web-assembly).

### MetaMap

To support range access, the bytes in wire-format for keys are reordered to place message lengths at the end of the `byte[]`
for each key.  This is especially important for *segments* (*where the parent knows only the `owner` part of the key, and *indexes*).

The `MetaMap` is an ordered array of #id and mapping of *key/value* #id to the element #id of references.  The `MetaMap` is coded
in the domain assembly.  This release adds the capability to remove key references without the need to crerate a new element type, by
regenerating the `MetaMap` from the `MetaModel` stored in **Hiperspace**.


### Change

This release changes the method signatures {`KeyPath`, `IndexPath`} to support a MetaMap built at load-time, and
adds additional abstract methods to the `Hiperspace` to load and merge `MetaModel`.

The `MetaModelException` exception type has been added to provide detailed diagnostics, if the `MetaModel` is not compatible.
