# Overview
This release is a minor update to support the presentation Cube data in  Graph views with **Hiperspace.DB**, and minor updated to external references.
## Fact enhancement
Every instance of a `_Fact` or `_Cube` element now includes a `Facts` property that excludes `Node` that is a view of a fact but have no underlying value.
## Node Enhancement 
`Node` now includes a `Measures` property, which is a `List<MeasureValue>` to eliminate the need to separately fetch measures when displaying `Cube` `Node` in a **Hiperspace.DB** graph display.  Normally a *graph* showing "*which client Sectors trade which products*" would involve connecting the edges *Sector->Client->Account->Trade->Leg->Asset->Instrument->Product* or `HiperEdge` *Sector=>Trade=>Product*, and then aggregate results.  When *Sector* and *Product* are *`@CubeDimension`* and *Trade* is a *`@CubeFact`* the aggregate values are available directly through *Sector->Trade_Cube->Product* with *streaming calculation* in **Hiperspace.DB**.  Displaying aggregate values in a graph is so useful for analysis that it is worth extending the `Node` model to include them as an optional property.
 [image]Sites/hiperspace/cube/hipercube.png[/image]
> **NB** This diagram is from a `HiperGraph` of the Sector "All", Product hierarchy aggregates are connected to the Sector hierarchy (without spider connections)
## Hilang enhancement
* Added support for `enum` values in messages.
* Resolved issue with self-referencing messages `message Dimension { Branches : List<Dimension> };`
* Name resolution of types now uses global namespace resolution to avoid clashes.  

## SubSpace enhancement
Currently Blazer Web Assembly clients cannot (*currently*) support threads and therefore cannot perform synchronous IO - `FindAsync()` and `GetAsync()`  requests can be routed (*over **gRpc***) to a remote store, `Find()` and `Get()` request are therefore *cache-local*. the test for `OperatingSystem.IsBrowser()` has been replaced  with a `CachePolicy` that default to *`CachingPolicy.Cache`* for Browser and *`CachingPolicy.Space`* otherwise.  This allows `message` to be used to *pre-fetch* dependencies on the server-side in addition to browser.
